To-Do list
==========
Update doc/changes_TenPy.rst if you've done something.

Primary goals for the coming release
------------------------------------
- convert TenPy2 code, restrict to necessary parts. 

    - add files from old git repo without changes, git commit
    - run `$> yapf -r -i`. See doc/changes_TenPy.rst for detailed command
    - relative imports (except in tests)
    - git commit

- CamelCase for classes
- include minimal library with mps, mpo, basic model (XXZ)

- some way to set the number of cores used by the MKL


Concrete things to be fixed in different files
----------------------------------------------
- np_conserved:

  - add state labeling to LegCharge !
  - as_completely_blocked: option to select only some legs

- model:

  - separate class for nearest neighbour models.
  - every model should define Hmpo
  - generalize to non-uniform [d]
  - introduce basic lattice class;
    derive MPS-chain fixing index notation for accessing different sites
    How to best handle different mappings lattice->chain?

- add doc strings in __init__.py for different folders, explaining the most important parts of the modules
- The MPO class has no function for expectation value with MPS?


To be done at some point for the next releases
----------------------------------------------
- uniform way of handling truncation errors -> module tools/truncation with TruncError class and TruncError
- documentation on the idea of algorithms, references in doc strings.

  - overview and usage introduction to the overall library
  - np_conserved needs an introduction for newbies
  - usage introduction with very simple (few-line) examples for newbies.

- set __all__  in the __init__.py files.
- properties might be useful for certain things, e.g. for dtype of npc.Array

- np_conserved:
  optional just-in-time compilation with numba could maybe speed things up?


Wish-list
---------
- Open Source on GitHub? -> Licence? Documentation on readthedocs.org?
- dump of stack for lated inspection, when an error occurs while on the cluster?
- logging mechanism?
- Johannes Motruk: extend simulation class: save standard variables like entropy, energy, etc?
- Ruben: extend MPS TransferMatrix class
- Johannes H: possible to convert to python3? 
- Johannes H, Maximilian: ED code using the symmetries, including example/test?

Auto-generated To-Do list
-------------------------
The following list is auto-generated by sphinx, extracting ``.. todo ::`` blocks from doc-strings of the code.

.. todolist ::

.. _buglist:
BUGS
====
Here, you can report Bugs that need to be fixed.


Known limitations
-----------------
TenPyLight is meant to be a simple and readably library. Therefore, it may not handle every special case correctly.
Here, we list some known 'bugs' that won't be fixed (at least not in the near future).

