[v0.10.0] - 2022-11-08
======================

Release Notes
-------------
The last release of v0.9.0 is by now over a year old, so there have accumulated quite a few fixes, updates and changes.

Everything should still work on Python 3.6, but we now officially support Python 3.7-3.11.

First of all, note that we did a (backwards-incompatible) rewrite of TDVP, which is now based on the
:class:`~tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.Sweep` class. 
If you need the old TDVP implementation, it's for now still available as :class:`tenpy.algorithms.tdvp.OldTDVPEngine`. 
Thanks to Wilhelm Kadow for his great work here!

There are 2 other significant changes that might require you to change something in your setup:

- If you are using simulations with measurements, the measurement functions for simulations need to be updated 
  to accept a `model` keyword argument, see :issue:`182` for more details.
- When you initialize Sites (in models) you should explicitly pass an argument `sort_charge`.
  Set it to `True` for new projects, but keep it as `False` if you neeed backwards compatibility with previously saved
  data. See the last point in the list of "Backwards incompatible changes" below and :issue:`175` for more details.


Changelog
---------

Backwards incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Replace the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.tdvp.TDVPEngine` with a new version. 
  The previous one is for now still available as :class:`tenpy.algorithms.tdvp.OldTDVPEngine`.
- Measurement functions now have to take another argument `model` as well, which matches the indexing/sites of `psi`.
  This helps to avoid special cases for grouped sites and `OrthogonalExciations`.
  Moreover, we renamed all measurement functions to start with ``m_`` to clarify their usage, and renamed the (optional) argument `key` to `results_key`.
- Add more fine grained sweep convergence checks for the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.VariationalCompression` (used when applying an MPO to an MPS!).
  In this context, we renamed the parameter `N_sweeps` to :cfg:option:`VariationalCompression.max_sweeps`.
  Further, we added the parameter :cfg:option:`VariationalCompression.min_sweeps` and :cfg:option:`VariationalCompression.tol_theta_diff`.
- Adjusted default paramters of :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.InitialStateBuilder.randomized` to be as documented with better ``chi_max``.
- No longer return `ov` from :func:`tenpy.linalg.lanczos.gram_schmidt`.
- Unify structure of  :class:`tenpy.algorithms.algorithm.TimeEvolutionAlgorithm` subclasses
  (e.g. :class:`tenpy.algorihtms.tebd.TEBDEngine`, :class:`tenpy.algorithms.tdvp.TDVPEngine` 
  and :class:`tenpy.algorithms.mpo_evolution.ExpMPOEvolution`).
  In particular, the default values for ``N_steps=1`` and ``dt=0.1`` are now the same for these classes;
  Previously, TEBD had a default of ``N_steps=10``, and the ExpMPOEvolution had ``dt=0.01``.
- Add option `sort_charge` to the :class:`~tenpy.networks.site.Site` (calling the new :meth:`~tenpy.networks.site.Site.sort_charge` method).
  Using `True` sorts the charges of the physical leg and thus helps to reduce overhead when using charge conservation.
  However, doing this can lead to inconsistencies between saved data and newly generated data (after updating TeNPy). 
  Hence, for now we keep the current default `False` behaviour, but raise a warning that you should set this option explicitly for cases where it changes things.
  Set it to `False`, if you already have data (for your particular model), that you want to be able to load/compare to.
  If you start a new project and don't have data yet, set it to `True`.
  We will change the default behaviour from `False` to `True` in version 1.0. See also :issue:`175`.

Added
^^^^^
- Wrappers for the helical and irregular lattice (removing sites) in :meth:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingMPOModel.init_lattice`.
- Options `pos_diag_r`, `qtotal_Q` and `qconj_inner` for :func:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.qr`.
- :class:`tenpy.linalg.lanczos.Arnoldi` (and common base class :class:`~tenpy.linalg.lanczos.KrylovBased` with :class:`~tenpy.linalg.lanczos.LanczosGroundState`).
- Allow to pass and merge multiple parameter files to ``tenpy-run`` from the command line.
- Greatly expanded userguide on :doc:`/intro/simulations` and added more parameter examples.
- Option `preserve_norm` for :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.mpo_evolution.ExpMPOEvolution`.
- Allow non-trivial :attr:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice.position_disorder` for lattices.
- Option `fix_u` for :func:`~tenpy.simulations.measurement.onsite_expectation_value`.
- Lattice :attr:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice.cylinder_axis`.
- Random number generator :attr:`~tenpy.models.model.Model.rng` for models. Any randomness of model (parameters) should use this!
- :meth:`~tenpy.models.aklt.AKLTChain.psi_AKLT` for the exact MPS ground state of (spin-1/2) AKLT chain.
- :func:`~tenpy.simulations.simulation.init_simulation` and :func:`~tenpy.simulations.simulation.init_simulation_from_checkpoint` for debugging or post-simulation measurement.
- :func:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.orthogonal_columns` constructing orthogonal columns to a given (rectangular) matrix.
- :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.enlarge_chi` for artificially enlarging the bond dimension.
- :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.NLegLadder`, and more `pairs` (``'rung_NN', 'leg_NN', 'diagonal'``) for the :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Ladder`.
- :meth:`tenpy.algorithms.Algorithm.switch_engine` for simplified switching from e.g. the `TwoSiteDMRGEngine` to the `SingleSiteDMRGEngine`.
- :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.MultiSpeciesLattice` to simplify implementing e.g. spin-full fermions or bosons without
  using the :class:`~tenpy.networks.site.GroupedSite`. Further helper functions :func:`~tenpy.networks.site.spin_half_species`, 
  as well as the new :class:`~tenpy.models.hubbard.FermiHubbardModel2` using it, and an example
  :doc:`/notebooks/31_multispecies_models`.
- Keyword argument `permute_dense` for :meth:`tenpy.networks.site.Site.add_op`.

Changed
^^^^^^^
- Raise a warning about iMPS conventions in MPS :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.overlap`, :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.apply_local_op`, which you can suppress with a new ``understood_infinite=True`` argument. See :ref:`iMPSWarning` for details.
- Renamed ``tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOGraph.add_string`` to :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOGraph.add_string_left_to_right`
  as part of the fix for :issue:`148`. Added similar :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOGraph.add_string_left_to_right`.
- Automatically shift terms in :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.expectation_value_terms_sum` to start in the MPS unit cell for infinite MPS.
- Possible ordering='folded' for the :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Ladder`.
- Enhanced implementation of :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.canonical_form_infinite2` to replace :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.canonical_form_infinite`.
- Split up :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.expectation_value` into :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.expectation_value_finite`
  and :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.expectation_value_power` and add :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.expectation_value_TM`
- Enhanced documentation of the lattices with more plots.
- Renamed ``prepare_update`` function of :class:`tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.Sweep` to 
  :meth:`~tenpy.algorithm.mps_common.prepare_update_local`.

Fixed
^^^^^
- :issue:`145` that :func:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.make_W_II` failed for MPOs with trivial virtual bonds.
- Make :func:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.detect_qtotal` more stable: use the maximal entry instead of the first non-zero one.
- :issue:`148` that generating MPOs with long-range couplings over multiple MPS unit cells and multi-couplings raised errors.
- The :func:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.qr` decomposition with ``mode='complete'`` sometimes returned wrong charges.
  Moreover, it sometimes gave zero columns in Q if the R part was completely zero for that charge block.
- Adjust default `trunc_params` of :func:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.compute_K` and :func:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.permute_sites` to avoid too severe truncation.
- (!) Non-trivial `start_time` parameter caused wrong evolution in :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.mpo_evolution.TimeDependentExpMPOEvolution`.
- Make sure that :meth:`~tenpy.models.lattice.lat2mps_idx` doesn't modify arguments in place.
- The power-method :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.expectation_value` did not work correctly for ``H.L != psi.L``.
- :meth:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_local_term` did not work with `plus_hc=True`.
- :meth:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator.eigenvectors` did not always return orthogonal eigenvectors with well-defined charges.
- Fix :class:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator` to not use the full flat array, but just the block with nonzero entries (which can be much smaller for a few charges).
  This is enabled over a new option `compact_flat` that defaults to True if the vector leg is blocked by charge (and charge_sector is not None).
- Make ``cons_Sz='parity'`` for the :class:`~tenpy.networks.site.SpinHalfSite` non-trivial.
- The first, initial measurements for time-dependent Hamiltonians might have used wrong time for sequential/resume run.
- Index error in stopping criteria for Lanczos, :issue:`169`.
- Fix for resuming simulations with `orthogonal_to`: carry on the environments!
- Fix :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.gauge_total_charge` in :issue:`179`. Many thanks to Johannes Mögerle!
