[0.4.0] - 2019-04-28
--------------------

Backwards incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- The argument order of :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice` could be a tuple ``(priority, snake_winding)`` before. 
  This is no longer valid and needs to be replaced by ``("standard", snake_winding, priority)``.
- Moved the boundary conditions `bc_coupling` from the :class:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel` into the :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice` (as `bc`).
  Using the parameter `bc_coupling` will raise a FutureWarning, one should set the boundary conditions directly in the lattice.
- Added parameter `permute` (True by default) in :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.from_product_state` and :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.from_Bflat`.
  The resulting state will therefore be independent of the "conserve" parameter of the Sites - unlike before, 
  where the meaning of the p_state argument might have changed.
- Generalize and rename  ``tenpy.networks.site.DoubleSite`` to :class:`tenpy.networks.site.GroupedSite`,
  to allow for an arbitrary number of sites to be grouped. 
  Arguments ``site0, site1, label0, label1`` of the __init__ can be replaced with ``[site0, site1], [label0, label1]``
  and ``op0, op1`` of the `kronecker_product` with ``[op0, op1]``; this will recover the functionality of the `DoubleSite`.
- Restructured callstructure of Mixer in DMRG, allowing an implementation of other mixers.
  To enable the mixer, set the DMRG parameter ``"mixer"`` to ``True`` or ``'DensityMatrixMixer'``
  instead of just ``'Mixer'``.
- The interaction parameter in the :class:`tenpy.models.bose_hubbbard_chain.BoseHubbardModel` 
  (and :class:`tenpy.models.bose_hubbbard_chain.BoseHubbardChain`) did not correspond to :math:`U/2 N (N-1)` 
  as claimed in the Hamiltonian, but to :math:`U N^2`.
  The correcting factor 1/2 and change in the chemical potential have been fixed.
- Major restructuring of :mod:`tenpy.linalg.np_conserved` and :mod:`tenpy.linalg.charges`.
  This should not break backwards-compatibility, but if you compiled the cython files, you **need** to remove the 
  old binaries in the source directory. Using ``bash cleanup.sh`` might be helpful to do that, but also remove other files within the repository, so be careful and make a backup beforehand to be on the save side.
  Afterwards recompile with ``bash compile.sh``.
- Changed structure of :attr:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.onsite_terms` and :attr:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.coupling_terms`:
  Each of them is now a dictionary with category strings as keys and the newly introduced
  :class:`tenpy.networks.terms.OnsiteTerms` and :class:`tenpy.networks.terms.CouplingTerms` as values.
- :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.calc_H_onsite` is deprecated in favor of new methods.
- Argument `raise_op2_left` of :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_coupling` is deprecated.


Added
^^^^^
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.canonical_form_infinite`.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.expectation_value_term`, :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.expectation_value_terms_sum` and
  :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.expectation_value_multi_sites` for expectation values of terms.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.expectation_value` for an MPO.
- :meth:`tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.Array.extend` and :meth:`tenpy.linalg.charges.LegCharge.extend`,
  allowing to extend an Array with zeros.
- DMRG parameter ``'orthogonal_to'`` allows to calculate excited states for finite systems.
- possibility to change the number of charges after creating LegCharges/Arrays.
- more general way to specify the order of sites in a :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice`.
- new :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.Triangular`, :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.Honeycomb` and :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.Kagome` lattice
- a way to specify nearest neighbor couplings in a :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice`, 
  along with methods to count the number of nearest neighbors for sites in the bulk, and
  a way to plot them (:meth:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice.plot_coupling` and friends)
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.from_grids` to generate the MPO from a grid.
- :class:`tenpy.models.model.MultiCouplingModel` for couplings involving more than 2 sites.
- request #8: Allow shift in boundary conditions of :class:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel`.
- Allow to use state labels in :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.from_product_state`.
- :class:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingMPOModel` structuring the default initialization of most models.
- Allow to force periodic boundary conditions for finite MPS in the :class:`~tenpy.modles.model.CouplingMPOModel`.
  This is not recommended, though.
- :meth:`tenpy.models.model.NearestNeighborModel.calc_H_MPO_from_bond` and
  :meth:`tenpy.models.model.MPOModel.calc_H_bond_from_MPO` for conversion of H_bond into H_MPO and vice
  versa.
- :class:`tenpy.algorithms.tebd.RandomUnitaryEvolution` for random unitary circuits
- Allow documentation links to github issues, arXiv, papers by doi and the forum with 
  e.g. ``:issue:`5`, :arxiv:`1805.00055`, :doi:`10.21468/SciPostPhysLectNotes.5`, :forum:`3```
- :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.coupling_strength_add_ext_flux` for adding hoppings with external flux.
- :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.plot_coupling_terms` to visualize the added coupling terms.
- :class:`tenpy.networks.terms.OnsiteTerms`, :class:`tenpy.networks.terms.CouplingTerms`, :class:`tenpy.networks.terms.MultiCouplingTerm` 
  containing the of terms for the :class:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel` and :class:`~tenpy.models.model.MultiCouplingModel`.
  This allowed to add the `category` argument to :class:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_onsite`, :class:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_coupling` and :class:`~tenpy.models.model.MultiCouplingModel.add_multi_coupling`.
- :class:`tenpy.networks.terms.TermList` as another (more human readable) representation of terms with conversion from
  and to the other ``*Term`` classes.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.init_LP` and :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.init_RP` to initialize left and right parts
  of an Environment.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOGraph.from_terms` and :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOGraph.from_term_list`.
- argument `charge_sector` in :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.correlation_length`.


Changed
^^^^^^^
- moved toycodes from the folder ``examples/`` to a new folder ``toycodes/`` to separate them clearly.
- major remodelling of the internals of :class:`tenpy.linalg.np_conserved` and :class:`tenpy.linalg.charges`.
    - Introduced the new module ``tenpy/linalg/_npc_helper.pyx`` which contains all the Cython code, and gets imported by
    - :class:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.Array` now rejects addition/subtraction with other types
    - :class:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.Array` now rejects multiplication/division  with non-scalar types
    - By default, make deep copies of npc Arrays.
- Restructured lanczos into a class, added time evolution calculating ``exp(A*dt)|psi0>``
- Warning for poorly conditioned Lanczos; to overcome this enable the new parameter `reortho`.
- Simplified call strucutre of :meth:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.Array.extend`, and
  :meth:`~tenpy.linalg.charges.LegCharge.extend`.
- Restructured :mod:`tenpy.algorithms.dmrg`:

  - :func:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.run` is now just a wrapper around the new 
    :meth:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.Engine.run`, ``run(psi, model, pars)`` is roughly equivalent to
    ``eng = EngineCombine(psi, model, pars); eng.run()``.
  - Added :meth:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.Engine.init_env` and :meth:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.Engine.reset_stats`
    to allow a simple restart of DMRG with slightly different parameters, e.g. for tuning Hamiltonian parameters.
  - Call :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.canonical_form` for infinite systems if the final state is not in canonical form.

- Changed **default values** for some parameters:

  - set ``trunc_params['chi_max'] = 100``. Not setting a `chi_max` at all will lead to memory problems.
    Disable ``DMRG_params['chi_list'] = None`` by default to avoid conflicting settings.
  - reduce to ``mixer_params['amplitude'] = 1.e-5``. A too strong mixer screws DMRG up pretty bad.
  - increase ``Lanczos_params['N_cache'] = N_max`` (i.e., keep all states)
  - set ``DMRG_params['P_tol_to_trunc'] = 0.05`` and provide reasonable ..._min and ..._max values.
  - increased (default) DMRG accuracy by setting
    ``DMRG_params['max_E_err'] = 1.e-8`` and ``DMRG_params['max_S_err'] = 1.e-5``.
  - don't check the (absolute) energy for convergence in Lanczos.
  - set ``DMRG_params['norm_tol'] = 1.e-5`` to check whether the final state is in canonical form.

- Verbosity of :func:`~tenpy.tools.params.get_parameter` reduced: Print parameters only for verbosity >=1.
  and default values only for verbosity >= 2.
- Don't print the energy during real-time TEBD evolution - it's preserved up to truncation errors.
- Renamed the `SquareLattice` class to :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.Square` for better consistency.
- auto-determine whether Jordan-Wigner strings are necessary in
  :meth:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_coupling`.
- The way the labels of npc Arrays are stored internally changed to a simple list with None entries.
  There is a deprecated propery setter yielding a dictionary with the labels.
- renamed `first_LP` and `last_RP` arguments of :class:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPSEnvironment` and :class:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOEnvironment` to `init_LP` and `init_RP`.
- Testing: insetad of the (outdated) `nose <https://nose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_, we now use `pytest <https://pytest.org>` for testing.

Fixed
^^^^^
- :issue:`22`: **Serious bug** in :func:`tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.inner`: if ``do_conj=True`` is used with non-zero
  ``qtotal``, it returned 0. instead of non-zero values.
- avoid error in :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.apply_local_op`
- Don't carry around total charge when using DMRG with a mixer
- Corrected couplings of the FermionicHubbardChain
- :issue:`2`: memory leak in cython parts when using intelpython/anaconda
- :issue:`4`: incompatible data types.
- :issue:`6`: the CouplingModel generated wrong Couplings in some cases
- :issue:`19`: Convergence of energy was slow for infinite systems with ``N_sweeps_check=1``
- more reasonable traceback in case of wrong labels
- wrong dtype of npc.Array when adding/subtracting/... arrays of different data types
- could get wrong H_bond for completely decoupled chains.
- SVD could return outer indices with different axes
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.overlap` works now for MPS with different total charge
  (e.g. after ``psi.apply_local_op(i, 'Sp')``).
- skip existing graph edges in MPOGraph.add() when building up terms without the strength part.

Removed
^^^^^^^
- Attribute `chinfo` of :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice`.
