[0.6.0] - 2020-05-16
====================

Release Notes
-------------
This release contains a major update of the documentation, which is now hosted by "Read the Docs" at https://tenpy.readthedocs.io/.
Update your bookmark :-)

Apart from that, this release introduces a format how to save and load data (in particular TeNPy classes) to HDF5 files.
See :doc:`/intro/input_output` for more details.
To use that feature, you need to **install** the h5py package (and therefore some version of the HDF5 library).
This is easy with anaconda, ``conda install h5py``, but might be cumbersome on your local computing cluster.
(However, many university computing clusters have some version of HDF5 installed already. Check with your local sysadmin.)

Moreover, we changed how we read out parameter dictionaries - instead of the `get_parameter()` function, 
we have now a :class:`~tenpy.tools.params.Config` class which behaves like a dictionary, you can simpy use
``options.get(key, default)`` for model parameters - as you would do for a python dictionary.

Changelog
---------

Backwards incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Created a class :class:`~tenpy.tools.params.Config` to replace Python-native 
  parameter dictionaries and add some useful functionality. 
  Old code using :meth:`tenpy.tools.params.get_parameter()` and :meth:`tenpy.tools.params.unused_parameters()` 
  still works as before, but raises a warning, and should be replaced.
  For example, if you defined your own models, you should replace calls
  ``get_parameter(model_params, "key", "default_value", "ModelName")`` with
  ``model_params.get("key", "default_value")``, 
  the latter syntax being what you would use for a normal python dictionary as well.
- Renamed the following class parameter dictionaries to simply `options` for more consitency.
  Old code using the class attributes should still work (since we provide property aliases), but raises warnings.
  Note that this affects also derived classes (for example the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.TwoSiteDMRGEngine`).

   * ``tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.DMRGEngine.DMRG_params``  (was already renamed to `engine_params` in versin 0.5.0)
   * ``tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.Sweep.engine_params``
   * ``tenpy.algorithms.tebd.Engine.TEBD_params``
   * ``tenpy.algorithms.tdvp.Engine.TDVP_params``
   * ``tenpy.linalg.lanczos.Lanczos``

- Changed the arguments of :meth:`tenpy.models.model.MultiCouplingModel`:
  We replaced the three arguments `u0`, `op0` and `other_op` with
  ``other_ops=[(u1, op1, dx1), (op2, u2, dx2), ...]``
  by single, equivalent argment `ops` which should now read
  ``ops=[(op0, dx0, u0), (op1, dx1, u1), (op2, dx2, u2), ...]``, where
  ``dx0 = [0]*lat.dim``. Note the changed order inside the tuple!
  Old code (which specifies `opstr` and `category` as keyword argument, if at all)
  still works as before, but raises a warning, and should be replaced.
  Since :meth:`tenpy.lattice.Lattice.possible_multi_couplings` used similar arguments,
  they were changed as well.
- Don't save `H_MPO_graph` as model attribute anymore - this also wasn't documented.
- Renamed the truncation parameter `symmetry_tol` to `degeneracy_tol` and make the criterion more reasonable by not 
  checking :math:`log(S_i/S_j) < log(symmetry_tol)`, but simply :math:`log(S_i/S_j) < degeneracy_tol``.
  The latter makes more sense, as it is equivalent to 
  :math:`(S_i - S_j)/S_j < exp(degeneracy_tol) - 1 = degeneracy_tol + \mathcal{O}(degeneracy_tol^2)`.
- Deprecated :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.increase_L` in favor of the newly added
  :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.enlarge_mps_unit_cell` (taking ``factor`` instead of ``new_L=factor*L`` as argument).
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.correlation_function` now auto-determines whether a Jordan-Wigner string is necessary.
  If any of the given operators is directly an npc Array, it will now raise an error; set ``autoJW=False`` in that case.
- Instead of "monkey-patching" `matvec` of the :class:`tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.EffectiveH` for the case that 
  `ortho_to_envs` is not empty, we defined a proper class :class:`~tenpy.linalg.sparse.NpcLinearOperatorWrapper`,
  which serves as baseclass for :class:`~tenpy.linalg.sparse.OrthogonalNpcLinearOperator`. 
  The argument `ortho_to_envs` has been removed from :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.EffectiveH`.
- Switch order of the sites in the unit cell for the :class:`~tenpy.models.toric_code.DualSquare`, and redefine what the
  ``"default"`` order means. This is a huge optimization of DMRG, reducing the necessary MPS bond dimension for the ground
  state to the optimal :math:`2^{L-1}` on each bond.
- Deprecated the Lanczos funciton/class argument `orthogonal_to` of in :class:`~tenpy.linalg.lanczos.LanczosGroundState`.
  Instead, one can use the :class:`~tenpy.linalg.sparse.OrthogonalNpcLinearOperator`.
- Deprecation warning for changing the default argument of `shift_ket` for non-zero `shift_bra` of the
  :class:`~tenpy.networks.mps.TransferMatrix`.


Added
^^^^^
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.variance` to calculate the variance of an MPO against a finite MPS.
- Classmethod :meth:`tenpy.networks.MPS.from_lat_product_state` to initialize an MPS from a product state given in
  lattice coordinates (independent of the `order` of the lattice).
- argument `plus_hc` for :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_onsite`, 
  :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_coupling`, and 
  :meth:`tenpy.models.model.MultiCouplingModel.add_multi_coupling` to simplify adding the hermitian conjugate terms.
- parameter `explicit_plus_hc` for :class:`~tenpy.models.model.MPOModel`, 
  :class:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel` and :class:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO`, 
  to reduce MPO bond dimension by not storing Hermitian conjugate terms, 
  but computing them at runtime.
- :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingModel.add_local_term` for adding a single term to the lattice, and still handling
  Jordan-Wigner strings etc.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.site.Site.get_hc_opname` and :attr:`~tenpy.networks.site.Site.hc_ops` to allow getting the 
  hermitian conjugate operator (name) of the onsite operators.
- :mod:`tenpy.tools.hdf5_io` with convenience functions for import and output with pickle, as well as an implementation 
  allowing to save and load objects to HDF5 files in the format specified in :doc:`/intro/input_output`.
- human-readable `boundary_conditions` property in :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice`.
- `save_hdf5` and `load_hdf5` methods to support saving/loading to HDF5 for the following classes (and their subclasses):
  - :class:`~tenpy.linalg.charges.ChargeInfo`
  - :class:`~tenpy.linalg.charges.LegCharge`
  - :class:`~tenpy.linalg.charges.LegPipe`
  - :class:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.Array`
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS`
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO`
  - :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice`
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPSEnvironment.get_initialization_data` for a convenient way of saving the necessary parts of the environment after an DMRG run.
- Method `enlarge_mps_unit_cell` for the following classes:
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS`
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO`
  - :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice`
  - :class:`~tenpy.models.model.Model`, :class:`~tenpy.models.model.MPOModel`, :class:`~tenpy.models.model.NearestNeighborModel`
- :func:`tenpy.tools.misc.to_iterable_of_len` for convenience of handling arguments.
- :meth:`tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice.mps2lat_values_masked` as generalization of :meth:`tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice.mps2lat_values`.
- :class:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.OrthogonalNpcLinearOperator` to orthogonalize against vectors.
- :class:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.ShiftNpcLinearOperator` to add a constant.
- :class:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.SumNpcLinearOperator` which serves e.g. to add the h.c. during the `matvec` 
  (in combination with the new :meth:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.NpcLinearOperator.adjoint`).
- :meth:`tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.make_eff_H` to simplify implementations of
  :meth:`~tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.prepare_update`.
- attribute :attr:`~tenpy.models.model.options` for the Model.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.roll_mps_unit_cell`.


Changed
^^^^^^^
- DEFAULT DMRG paramter ``'diag_method'`` from ``'lanczos'`` to ``'default'``, which is the same for large bond
  dimensions, but performs a full exact diagonalization if the effective Hamiltonian has small dimensions.
  The threshold introduced is the new DMRG parameter ``'max_N_for_ED'``.
- DEFAULT parameter ``charge_sector=None`` instead of ``charge_sector=0`` in :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.overlap` 
  to look for eigenvalues of the transfer matrix in *all* charge sectors, and not assume that it's the 0 sector.
- Derive the following classes (and their subclasses) from the new :class:`~tenpy.tools.hdf5_io.Hdf5Exportable`
  to support saving to HDF5:
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.site.Site`
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.terms.Terms`
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.terms.OnsiteTerms`
  - :class:`~tenpy.networks.terms.CouplingTerms`
  - :class:`~tenpy.models.model.Model`, i.e., all model classes.
- Instead of just defining `to_matrix` and `adjoint` for :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.EffectiveH`, 
  define the interface directly for :class:`~tenpy.linalg.sparse.NpcLinearOperator`.
- Try to keep the charge block structure as far as possible for :meth:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.add_charge` and
  :meth:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.drop_charge` 


Fixed
^^^^^
- Adjust the default DMRG parameter `min_sweeps` if `chi_list` is set.
- Avoid some unnecessary transpositions in MPO environments for MPS sweeps (e.g. in DMRG).
- :class:`~tenpy.linalg.charges.LegCharge.sort(bunch=True)` could return un-bunched Array,
  but still set the `bunched` flag.
- :class:`~tenpy.linalg.charges.LegPipe` did not initialize ``self.bunched`` correctly.
- :issue:`98`: Error of calling `psi.canonical_form()` directly after disabling the DMRG mixer.
- :func:`~tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.svd` with ``full_matrices=True`` gave wrong charges.
- :meth:`tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.Array.drop_charge` and :meth:`tenpy.lina.np_conserved.Array.drop_charge`
  did not copy over labels.
- wrong pairs for the `fifth_nearest_neighbors` of the :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.Honeycomb`.
- Continue in :func:`tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.full_diag_effH` with a warning instaed of raising an Error,
  if the effective Hamltonian is zero.
- :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.correlation_length`: check for hermitian Flag might have raised and Error with new numpy warnings
- :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.correlation_function` did not respect argument ``str_on_first=False``.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.get_op` worked unexpected for infinite `bc` with incomensurate ``self.L`` and ``len(op_list)``.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.permute_sites` did modify the given `perm`.
- :issue:`105` Unintended side-effects using `lanczos_params.verbose` in combination with `orthogonal_to`
- :issue:`108` :meth:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator._matvec` changes ``self._charge_sector``
