[v0.8.0] - 2021-03-19
=====================

Release Notes
-------------
First of all: We have optimized the cython parts such that they can now link directly against MKL and have been optimized for the case of small blocks inside charge-conserved tensors.
During compilation, TeNPy now checks whether MKL is available, and then directly links against it.
This **changed the depencies**: in particular, when you created a conda environment for TeNPy, it is highly recommended
to start off with a new one based on the ``environment.yml`` file.
If you want to continue using the existing conda environment, you need to ``conda install mkl-devel`` before compilation. *Additionally*, when you use the ``conda-forge`` channel of conda, you should pin blas to use MKL by ``conda install libblas=*=*mkl``.

Another great reason to update are **simulation classes** and a console script `tenpy-run` to allow running and even resuming a simulation when it aborted!
See :doc:`/intro/simulations` for details.

Further, there is a big change in **verbosity**: we switched to using Python's default :mod:`logging` mechanism. 
This implies that by default you don't get any output besides error messages and warning any more, at least not in pre-`simulation` setups.
See :doc:`/intro/logging` on how to get the output back, and what to change in your code.

Finally, note that the default (stable) git branch was renamed from ``master`` to ``main``.

Changelog
---------

Backwards incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Drop official support for Python 3.5.
- :meth:`tenpy.linalg.np_conserved.from_ndarray`: raise `ValueError` instead of just a warning in case of the wrong
  non-zero blocks. This behaviour can be switched back with the new argument `raise_wrong_sector`.
- Argument `v0` of :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.TransferMatrix.eigenvectors` is renamed to `v0_npc`; `v0` now serves for non-np_conserved guess.
- Default parameters for lattice initialization in the following classes changed.
  In particular, the `bc_MPS` parameter now defaults to 'finite'.

  - :class:`tenpy.models.hofstadter.HofstadterFermions`
  - :class:`tenpy.models.hofstadter.HofstadterBosons`
  - :class:`tenpy.models.toric_code.ToricCode`

- Renamed `tenpy.algorithms.tebd.Engine` to :class:`tenpy.algorithms.tebd.TEBDEngine` and
  `tenpy.algorithms.tdvp.Engine` to :class:`tenpy.algorithms.tdvp.TDVPEngine` to have unique algorithm class-names.

- When running, no longer print stuff by default. Instead, we use Python's `logging` mechanism.
  To enable printing again, you need to configure the logging to print on "INFO" level (which is the default when
  running from command line)

  As part of this big change in the way verbosity is handled, there were many minor changes:
  - rename `Config.print_if_verbose` to :meth:`~tenpy.tools.params.Config.log`
  - deprecate the `verbose` class argument of the :class:`~tenpy.tools.params.Config`
  - deprecate the `verbose` class attribute of all classes (if they had it).
  - change argument names of :meth:`~tenpy.tools.params`.
- Changed default parameter (actually in :doc:`/changelog/v0.8.4`), namely to 
  use the :cfg:option:`DMRGEngine.mixer` for :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.SingleSiteDMRG` by default.

Added
^^^^^
- Simulation class :class:`~tenpy.simulation.simulation.Simulation` and subclasses as a new extra layer for handling the general setup.
- Command line script ``tenpy-run`` and :func:`~tenpy.run_simulation` for setting up a simulation.
- :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.entanglement_entropy_segment2`
- :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.apply_product_op`
- :meth:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator.eigenvectors` and :meth:`~tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatHermitianOperator.eigenvectors` to unify
  code from :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.TransferMatrix.eigenvectors` and :meth:`tenpy.linalg.lanczos.lanczos_arpack`.
- :meth:`tenpy.tools.misc.group_by_degeneracy`
- :meth:`tenpy.tools.fit.entropy_profile_from_CFT` and :meth:`tenpy.tools.fit.central_charge_from_S_profile`
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.site.Site.multiply_operators` as a variant of :meth:`~tenpy.networks.site.Site.multiply_op_names` accepting both string and npc arrays.
- :meth:`tenpy.tools.events.EventHandler` to simplify call-backs e.g. for measurement codes during an algorithms.
- :func:`tenpy.tools.misc.find_subclass` to recursively find subclasses of a given base class by the name.
  This function is now used e.g. to find lattice classes given the name, hence supporting user-defined lattices defined outside of TeNPy.
- :func:`tenpy.tools.misc.get_recursive` and :func:`~tenpy.tools.misc.set_recursive` for nested data strucutres, e.g., parameters.
- :func:`tenpy.tools.misc.flatten` to turn a nested data structure into a flat one.
- :class:`tenpy.networks.mps.InitialStateBuilder` to simplify building various initial states.
- Common base class :class:`tenpy.algorithms.Algorithm` for all algorithms.
- Common base class :class:`tenpy.algorithms.TimeEvolutionAlgorithm` for time evolution algorithms.
- :attr:`tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice.Lu` as a class attribute.
- :meth:`tenpy.models.lattice.Lattice.find_coupling_pairs` to automatically find coupling pairs of 'nearest_neighbors' etc..
- :class:`tenpy.models.lattice.HelicalLattice` allowing to have a much smaller MPS unit cell by shifting the boundary conditions around the cylinder.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.purification_mps.PurificationMPS.from_infiniteT_canonical` for a canonical ensemble.

Changed
^^^^^^^
- For finite DMRG, :cfg:option:`DMRGEngine.N_sweeps_check` now defaults to 1 instead of 10 (which is still the default for infinite MPS).
- Merge :meth:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator.npc_to_flat_all_sectors` into :meth:`~tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator.npc_to_flat`,
  merge :meth:`tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator.flat_to_npc_all_sectors` into :meth:`~tenpy.linalg.sparse.FlatLinearOperator.flat_to_npc`.
- Change the ``chinfo.names`` of the specific :class:`~tenpy.networks.site.Site` classes to be more consistent and clear.
- Add the more powerful :meth:`tenpy.networks.site.set_common_charges` to replace :meth:`tenpy.networks.site.multi_sites_combine_charges`.
- Allow ``swap_op='autoInv'`` for :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.swap_sites` and explain the idea of the `swap_op`.
- The :meth:`tenpy.models.model.CouplingMPOModel.init_lattice` now respects new class attributes 
  :attr:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingMPOModel.default_lattice` and
  :attr:`~tenpy.models.model.CouplingMPOModel.force_default_lattice`.
- Support additional `priority` argument for :func:`~tenpy.models.lattice.get_order_grouped`, :issue:`122`.
- Warn if one of the `add_*` methods of the CouplingMPOModel gets called after initialization.

Fixed
^^^^^
- Sign error for the couplings of the :class:`tenpy.models.toric_code.ToricCode`.
- The form of the eigenvectors returned by :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.TransferMatrix.eigenvectors` 
  was dependent on the `charge_sector` given in the initialization; we try to avoid this now (if possible).
- The charge conserved by ``SpinHalfFermionSite(cons_Sz='parity')`` was weird.
- Allow to pass npc Arrays as Arguments to :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.expectation_value_multi_sites` and
  other correlation functions (:issue:`116`).
- :mod:`tenpy.tools.hdf5_io` did not work with h5py version >= (3,0) due to a change in string encoding (:issue:`117`).
- The overall phase for the returned `W` from :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.compute_K` was undefined.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPO.expectation_value` didn't work with max_range=0
- The default `trunc_par` for :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.swap_sites`, :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.permute_sites` and :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.compute_K` was leading to too small chi for intial MPS with small chi.
- :issue:`120` Lattice with different sites in the unit cell.
- Index offset in :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.expectation_value_term` for the sites to be used.
- :issue:`121` :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.correlation_length` worked with `charge_sector=0`, but included additional divergent value with `charge_sector=[0]`.
- Some MPS methods (correlation function, expectation value, ...) raised an error for negative site indices even for infinite MPS.
- Warn if we add terms to a couplingMPOMOdel after initialization
