[v0.9.0] - 2021-09-21
=====================

Release Notes
-------------
It's been a while, so we have a bunch of new features, in particular quite some progress with the simulation classes.
The DMRG mixer has been rewritten, and the setup for orthogonal excitations with DMRG has been adjusted a bit.
If you already used the simulation class setup, watch out for the renaming of the ``simultion_class(_name)`` and the
change of the default separater for recursive keys.
Apart form that, there are not major incompatibilities compared to v0.8.4

Special thanks go to Wilhelm Kadow for great work on the mixed real- and momentum-space representation for models!

Support Python 3.6 to 3.9

Changelog
---------

Backwards incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Renamed the `simulation_class_name` argument/parameter to `simulation_class` of :func:`~tenpy.simulations.simulation.run_simulation` 
  for more consistency with remaining simulation parameters.
- change default separator for :func:`tenpy.tools.misc.get_recursive`, :func:`~tenpy.tools.misc.set_recursive`, :func:`~tenpy.tools.misc.update_recursive`, and
  :func:`~tenpy.tools.misc.flatten` to ``'.'`` instead of ``'/'``. 
  Also, :func:`~tenpy.tools.misc.get_recursive` now supports a `default` argument.
- replace the `orthogonal_to` option of :class:`tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.Sweep` by an `orthogonal_to` keyword argument for the class and it's :meth:`~tenpy.algorithms.mps_common.Sweep.init_env`.
- deprecated options:
  - `sweep_0` for sweep classes; use `sweeps` in the `resume_data` instead.
- Require context-manager-style setup for Simulation classes.
- Replace the `SingleSiteMixer` and `TwoSiteMixer` with the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.SubspaceExpansion`; major
  rewriting of the mixer code.
  Further, we now reactivate/reset the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.Mixer` whenever growing the bond dimension due to `chi_list` in DMRG.
  The new option :cfg:option:`DMRGEngine.chi_list_reactivates_mixer` allows to disable this.


Added
^^^^^
- :class:`tenpy.models.mixed_xk.MixedXKLattice` and :class:`tenpy.models.mixed_xk.MixedXKModel` for models in mixed real- and momentum space representation on a cylinder.
- :func:`tenpy.simulations.simulation.run_sequential_simulations`
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPSEnvironment.init_LP` and :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPSEnvironment.init_RP`, and
  :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOEnvironment.init_LP` and :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOEnvironment.init_RP` additionally
  support the argument `start_env_sites`, which can now be part of the `init_env_data`.
  This allows to converge MPO environments from scratch, given only the MPO and MPS, with a power-method.
  The :class:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOTransferMatrix` was added for converging environments from scratch with Arnoldi.
- Caching with the :mod:`tenpy.tools.cache.DictCache`, :mod:`tenpy.tools.cache.PickleCache`, and :mod:`tenpy.tools.cache.Hdf5Cache` to reduce memory requirements.
  In that context, the keyword argument `cache` was added to the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` base class.
- :meth:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.sample_measurements`.
- equality test for :class:`~tenpy.linalg.charges.LegCharge`.
- MPS with segment boundaries now keep track of unitaries at the boundaries in :attr:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.segment_boundaries`.
- :class:`~tenpy.simulations.simulation.OrthogonalExcitations` simulation class for finding excited states with DMRG.
- :cfg:option:`Simulation.group_sites` for the simultion class.
- `extract_segment` method for model, lattice and MPS/MPO classes.
- :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.mpo_evolution.TimeDependentExpMPOEvolution` for time-dependent hamiltonians.
- :func:`tenpy.tools.misc.merge_recursive` to merge nested parameter dictionaries.


Changed
^^^^^^^
- :func:`tenpy.tools.misc.find_subclass` now directly raises an error if no subclass with that name is found.
- Renamed the `logging_params` to `log_params`.
- :func:`tenpy.simulations.measurement.correlation_length` now supports a `unit` keyword.
  If it is not given explicitly, a warning is raised.
- :func:`tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.canonical_form` now supports an argument `envs_to_update` to allow keeping
  MPS/MPOEnvironments consistent.
- keyword argument `sequential_simulations` for :meth:`tenpy.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.get_resume_data`.
- Allow to select the distribution of the generated `U` for the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.tebd.RandomUnitaryEvolution`.
  For randomly perturbing an MPS in :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.InitialStateBuilder.randomized` or the new
  :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.perturb`, select the distribution suitable to preserve the dtype of the MPS.
- Rewriting of the :class:`~tenpy.algorithms.dmrg.DensityMatrixMixer`.
- Generalize `conserve` argument of the :class:`~tenpy.networks.site.Site` subclasses, e.g. :class:`~tenpy.networks.site.SpinHalfSite`,
  to handle `None` and `False` the same way as a string ``'None'``. The string is the new, documented way to disable charge
  conservation.


Fixed
^^^^^
- (!) Missing ``+ h.c.`` in :meth:`tenpy.networks.mpo.MPOEnvironment.full_contraction` when `H.explicit_plus_hc` was True.
  This caused wrong energies being reported during DMRG when `explicit_plus_hc` was used.
- (!) The DMRG mixers didn't respect/handle the `explicit_plus_hc` of MPOs correctly. This might have lead to an
  insufficient subspace expandsion.
- Always return `psi` in the :meth:`tenpy.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.get_resume_data`.
  Optionally, this can be a copy, e.g. if `psi.canonical_form` needs to be called at the end of the algorithm, which would render the environments invalid.
- Use logging in simulation only after calling :func:`~tenpy.tools.misc.setup_logging`.
- :issue:`99` and :issue:`113` by allowing to either reinitialize the environment from scratch, 
  and/or to updating the environments in psi.canonical_form().
- :issue:`137` additional error check for :meth:`~tenpy.networks.mps.MPS.from_lat_product_state` with
  :class:`~tenpy.models.lattice.HelicalLattice`.
- Missing return in :meth:`~tenpy.algorithms.Algorithm.resume_run` broke simulation resume for DMRG.
- Simulation checkpoints during DMRG resulted in MPS failing `test_sanity()` during load.
